Chapter 6 Structures
    A structure is a collection of one or more variables,possibly of different types,grouped together under a single name for convenient handling.
    结构是一个或多个变量的集合,这些变量可能属于不同的类型,为了方便处理将它们组织在一个名称下.
(Structures are called "records" in some languages,notably Pascal.) 
(结构也叫做"记录"在一些语言,特别是Pascal语言.)
Structures help to organize complicated data,particulaly in large programs,because they permit a group of related variables to be treated as a unit instead of as separate entities.
由于结构将一组相关变量看作一个单元而不是各自独立的实体,所以通常被用来组织复杂数据,特别是在大型程序中.
    One traditional example of structure is the payroll record:an employee is described by a set of attributes such as name,address,social security number,salary,etc.Some of these in turn could be structures:
    用来描述结构的一个传统例子是工资记录:每个员工由一组属性来描述,像姓名,住址,社保号,工资等.其中一些可以定义为结构类型:
a name has several components,as does an address and even a salary.Another example,more typical for C,somes from graphics:a point is a pair of coordinates,a rectangle is a pair of points,and so on.
姓名可以分成几个组成部分,地址和工资也可能出现相同情况.另一个例子,在C语言中,更加典型的例子来自于图形:点由一对坐标定义,矩形由两个点定义.等等.
    The main change made by the ANSI standard is to define structure assignment - structures may be copied and assigned to,passed to functions,and returned by functions.
    ANSI C标准中的主要变化是定义了对结构的赋值操作 --- 结构可以拷贝,赋值,传递给函数,通过函数返回.
This has been supported by most compiler for many years,but the properties are now precisely defined.Automatic structures and arrays may now also be initialized.
很久以来大多数编译程序就支持这一点,只是其性质进行了更明确的定义.自动结构和数组现在也允许初始化.

6.1 Basic of Structures
    Let us create a few structures suitable for graphics.The basic object is a point,which we will assume has an x coordinate and a y coordinate,both integers.
    让我们创建一些适用于绘图的结构.最基本对象是点,这些点我们假设用x与y坐标表示它,且x,y坐标都取整形.

The two compontes can be placed in a structure declared like this:
两个部分可以在结构中声明像如下:
    struct point{
        int x;
        int y;
    };
    The keyword struct introduce a structure declaration,which is a list of declarations enclosed in braces.An optional name called a structure tag may follow the word struct(as with point here).
    关键字struct引入结构说明,这种说明是一组说明在花括号之内.struct后跟的名字是可选的,它是结构的标记(这里的是point).
The tag names this kind of structure,and can be used subsequently as a shorthand for the part of the declaration in braces.
这个标记用来命名结构,它可以作为花括号内说明的简写.
    The variables named in structure are called members.A structure member or tag and an ordinary(i.e.,non-member) variable can have the same name withou conflict,
    在结构中命名的变量叫做成员.结构成员或者标记和普通变量(就是非成员)能够拥有相同的名字而不会冲突.
since they can always be distinguished by context.
因为它们总是能够通过上下文区分.
Furthermore,the same member names may occur in different structures,although as a matter of style one would normally use the same names only for close related objects.
另外,不同的结构之中的成员可以采用相同的名字,尽管从程序风格上说,通常只有密切关联的对象的才会使用相同的名称.
    A struct declaration defines a type.The right brace that terminated list of members may be followed by a list of variables,just for any basic type.That is
    一个结构声明定义一种类型.在标志结构成员表结束的右括号之后,可以像其他基本类型一样跟随一个变量表.例如,
        struct {...} x,y,z;
is syntactically analogous to 
其语法类似于
        int x,y;
in the sense that each statement declares x,y and z to be variables of named type and cause space to be set aside for them.
其意义就是这两个声明都用于把x,y和z声明为指明类型的变量并且为它们分配存储空间.
    A structure declaration that is not follow by a list of variables reserves to storage;it merely describes a template or the shape of a structure.If the declaration is tagged,however,
    若在结构声明之后没有跟随变量列表,则不需要为之准备存储空间;它仅仅描述了一个结构的模版或者形状.但是如果声明带有标记,那么,
the tag can be used later in definitions of instnce of structure.For example,given the declaration of point above,
那么在以后定义结构实例时可以使用它.例如,对于上面给出的point的声明,
    struct point pt;
defines a variable pt which is a structure of type struct point.A structure can be initialized by following its definition with a list of initializers,each a constant expression,for the members:
定义了一个point结构型的变量pt.结构可以在申明时初始化,方法是在其定义后加上初始化符号表,初始化符号表与各个成员对应的必须是常量表达式:
    struct point maxpt ={ 320,200  }; 
An automatic structure may also be initialized by assignment or by calling a function that returns a structure of the right type.
自动结构也可以通过赋值或调用返回结构类型的函数进行初始化.
   A member of particular structure is referred to in an expression by a construction of the form
   在表达式中可以通过如下形式来引用一特定结构中的成员
        structure-name.member
The structure member operator "." connects the structure name and the member name.To print the coordinates of the point pt,for instance,
结构成员的运算符"."把结构名与成员名连接起来.例如,可以用如下语句打印出点pt的坐标,
        printf("%d%d",pt.x,pt.y);
or compute the distance from the origin(0,0) to pt,
或者用如下代码计算pt与原点(0,0)的距离,
        double dist,sqart(double);
        dist = sqart((double)pt.x*pt.x + (double)pt.y*pt.y);
    Structure can be nested.One representation of a rectangle is a pair of point that denote the diagonally opposite corners:
    结构可以被嵌套.我们可以用对角线上的两个点来定义矩形.其定义如下:

        struct rect {
            struct point pt1;
            struct point pt2;
        }
The rect strucutre contains two point structures.If we declare screen as 
所定义的结构rect包含两个点结构了性.如果我们定义screen为
        struct rect screen;
then
        screen.pt1.x
refers to the x coordinate of the pt1 member of the screen.
访问screen的成员pt1的x坐标值.